Welcome to Orange Crystal! In this hack of CFRU-less (vanilla) FireRed, traverse across Kanto, the Orange Islands (maps by Kalarie, from "Orange Islands" [GBA], maps used with permission), and Johto (maps by linkandzelda, from "Liquid Crystal", maps used with permission) in an epic adventure to collect 20 badges, defeat 2 Elite Fours and become champion of 3 regions, and defeat Team Rocket time and time again!

You are an 18-year-old from Valencia Island who is conducting research for Prof Ivy as a part-time scientist. You start out with 3 level 20 Pokemon: Growlithe, Omanyte, and Weepinbell. Shuttle back and forth between the Orange Islands, Johto, and Kanto on missions for Prof Ivy as you earn badges to help you out along the way. While you're doing business trips, you will run into Team Rocket as they attempt an unknown master plot. You will also run into your rival, who is also from Valencia Island. He is a fellow scientist who has the same goal as you, but he is a little "stuck up" and wants to outdo you at every turn.

Train your Pokemon up in mass with the later Gen exp share (called the Exp All in later Gens), or focus on specific Pokemon by turning that feature off. I will balance the Exp Share so that either option is viable. Sometimes, you will run into trainers and wild Pokemon who could "care less" what point in the story you are - these are called "open world" features, and it means the Pokemon will be based on how many badges you have, and will evolve (in their parties) based on their level.

Additionally, you will find more than 50 TMs and more than 16 move tutors along the way. You will even find a "hack" that patented a modded move relearner to give Pokemon competitive moves - at a hefty price. But that's not all - later Gen moves (and items, not to mention) will be added "patch-by-patch"; stay up-to-date on the latest releases to find what has changed! In addition, level-up-learnsets will be slightly different from vanilla, as later Gen move pickups, along with some logical competitive move pickups, will be sprinkled in - although the limit of 20 moves max will stay enforced, for sanity's sake. Moves will be updated to later Gen standards, along with the Physical/Special/Status Split.

Last, new Pokemon from Gens 4-9 will be included at my (expert) discretion; they will have Gen 3 Abilities, but rest assured that they will try their best to align with the species in question. I expect a master Pokedex of 200-250, which is no shortage of options.